== Source Code and Redistribution ==

The code I have written is provided for free and is licensed under the GPL. You may obtain the source code at the [https://github.com/marciot/retroweb-browser Retroweb-Browser on Git Hub]. The source code distribution includes what you need to host this webapp on your own website.

== Basic Actions ==

These actions allow you to interact with the navigator and the simulated computer.

=== Go Back ===

This action takes you back to your previous location in the navigator.

=== Go Home ===

This action takes you back to the starting location in the navigator.

=== Restart Computer ===

This action restarts the emulated computer. It is useful if the computer has crashed. Refreshing the webpage also restarts the computer, but you will have to wait for the disk images to download from the server again and changes to the local disks will be lost. The Restart action is much faster and will preserve your changes.

== Advanced Actions ==

The advanced actions allow you to access special emulator features. These actions are intended for more technically savvy users.

=== Load ROM ===

This action allows you to load in a ROM image for use by the emulator. This is required to start the emulated computer. This emulator supports the ROM images that are distributed in the PCE download page.

=== Local floppy ===

This action can be used to load floppy images that are stored on local computer into the emulator.

Not all disk images will be compatible with this emulator and vintage software is often distributed in files that must be unpacked and copied into disk images using other tools.

=== Enter RetroWeb URL ===

The "Enter RetroWeb URL" icon allows you to enter an URL for a RetroWeb JSON index file. These are similar to web URLs, but must point to a specially formatted JSON file. This feature will not be very useful until others begin to host content for this webapp.

== What is the RetroWeb? ==

The RetroWeb is the name I coined for a hyper-linked collection of content for use with an emulated computer. A RetroWeb browser, by extension, is an emulator running alongside an interface that allows you to navigate that content. This webapp, which curiously runs inside your web browser, is thus a RetroWeb browser. It allows you to surf a specially curated portion of the web related to this emulated computer.

Although computer emulators already exist in various forms and there are many web sites devoted to the preservation of historical software, I believe this webapp represents the first time that the means to find software and documentation has been put right next to the means to interact with it.

== Hosting RetroWeb Content ==

This webapp makes use of [http://www.json.org/ JSON] and [http://enable-cors.org CORS] technologies to allow for the dynamic hyper-linking of resources, thus providing the "web" part of RetroWeb.

If you own a website, you can use this functionality to host your own resources for this emulator. By publishing an index file and implementing CORS, others will be allowed to link from their content to yours.