{
	"author" : "Marcio Teixeira",
	"license" : "http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/",
	"emulators" : ["pce-macplus"]
}

= The Apple Macintosh =

The Apple Macintosh debuted in 1984 with 128K of memory and an internal 400K floppy disk drive.

== Macintosh Guided Tour ==

{ "icons" : [
		["Macintosh Guided Tour",   "folder-dot"]
	],
	"class" : "float-right"
}

At the time the Macintosh was released, mice and a graphical user interfaces were unfamiliar to most people. With each Macintosh, Apple included a Guided Tour diskette and audio cassette to help new users familiarise themselves with their computer.

== System 1.0 and Finder 1.1g ==

{ "icons" : [
		["System Boot Disk",   "boot-floppy", "/disks/mac-system1.0-finder1.1g.image",
			{"emulator-args" : {"-c" : "pce-mac-128k.cfg"} }]
	],
	"class" : "float-right"
}

The release of the Finder was more refined, including a professionally done mountain scene in the "About the Finder" and much nicer icons; it also added a "Clean Up" command in the Finder[1].

There is some great information about this release in Dan Vanderkam's [http://www3.nd.edu/~jvanderk/sysone/ System 1.0 Headquarters].

= Themed Exhibits: =

== Marcio's Mac ==

{ "icons" : [
		["Marcio's Mac",   "folder-dot"]
	],
	"class" : "float-right"
}

I began writing Macintosh programs in 1986 when my family bought a Macintosh Plus.

Take a tour of my simulated Mac Plus and explore the programs that I wrote. Several of these were released as Shareware and featured in books of the era; others were never released to the public&mdash;they are made available to you here for the very first time!

== Historic Macintosh Software ==

The Macintosh drew many developers. Here you'll find a collection of historic software for the Macintosh.

{ "icons" : [
		["Flight Simulator", "folder-dot", "subLOGIC-Flight-Simulator"],
		["PowerPoint V1.0",            "folder", "PowerPoint"],
		["Mac Shareware",              "folder"]
	]
}

=== About the Emulator ===

{
	"icons" : [
		["PCE Home Page",            "hyperlink",   "http://www.hampa.ch/pce"]
	],
	"class" : "float-right"
}

The Macintosh emulator is a JavaScript port of Hampa Hug's PCE (PC Emulator).
The Javascript port is based on work done by James Friend[2]

== References ==

# http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Mac_OS
# http://jamesfriend.com.au/pce-js/
